So once we've kind of decided,
okay, which of those four or all
of those four we're gonna use, whatever
combination of different calls to action,
we've got a calls to action, so
the next big problem we got is price.
Boy, this is a tricky one, so
let's run through some of the options
that are maybe available to you,
there's the freemium option, okay?
So you provide a free basic piece of
software with the option to upgrade or
add additional features.
Benefits, great for user acquisition
as it reduces the barrier to entry and
lets you build a big
user base very quickly.
Challenge, getting those people
to then become paying customers,
and there could be obviously a big
overhead potentially to support
those free customers and
without you making any money out of them.
So, freemium has got its
place without a doubt, but
it does come with its challenges.
The subscription model is basically
a reoccurring fee, either annually or
monthly, often tied in with tiered
pricing based on features, users,
usage limits, etc.
Benefits, as Mark said earlier,
predictable revenue that can scale
with the size of the your business.
And it also encourages you to
commit to ongoing development and
support which is a good thing.
The challenges is that it can cause
problems with expectations and
billing and unexpected billing and
unpredictable elements to it.
So I don't know, let me give you
a good real example of this, Figma,
has anybody ever found themselves
paying both monthly and
annually because they've accidentally
added an extra person, an extra seat?
I seem to do it all the time,
everybody's looking at me blankly,
obviously it's just me,
I'll shut up and move on now [LAUGH].
Then there's usage-based,
I feel silly now, charging based on usage,
pay-as-you-go models,
you know the kind of thing.
Benefits, fair to users since
they're only paying for
what they actually use,
can be a really strong selling point, and
there is a direct relationship between
the cost and the value received.
Challenges is that you have to continue to
provide value or you will see a big churn.
And it can be important to have
clear tier differentiation and
manage your features really well,
otherwise people don't necessarily
see the value in going for the posture
service and moving up the chain.
Per-User charging, this is often
used in B2B products quite a lot,
easy for your customers to understand and
scale well with the size of
the customers team, which works great.
Bigger companies pay more,
it seems, works really well,
it can discourage adoption within larger
teams because they don't wanna pay for
lots of different seats of it.
And it can lead to things like account
sharing which reduces security and
those kinds of stuff.
Then there's feature-based, there's so
many ways of splitting this on there,
more than you think, right?
So, you pay for different features at
different levels and this is great cuz it
allows customers to pick a plan that
fits their needs and their budget.
But it has got the downside of it, can be
tricky to see how the tiers are different
from one another and you risk
overwhelming users with too many choices.
And then of course, there's a hybrid
of all of the above basically,
where you can combine elements from
different ways of doing things,
which is super flexible, but
can be difficult to communicate.
So those are all the different types
of packaging, but I haven't answered
the question well, how do you decide
on how much to actually charge?
And obviously,
I can't give you a solid formula for
that cuz I don't know what your
product is or anything else, but
I can give you the factors that I
use to influence that decision.
The audience, how much people are actually
willing to pay, [LAUGH] no-brainer,
really, that one.
The competition,
what the competition charges and
how they structure their pricing plans,
I often use that to influence me.
Flexibility, does your pricing allow
enough flexibility to offer discounts or
changes over time?
So a regular thing that you see happen is
that people underprice the competitors and
then they've got very
little wiggle room to do a,
I don't know, a Cyber Monday discount or
whatever else.
That can be very valuable in scenarios or
offer a student discount or
things like that.
So you wanna leave enough legroom in your
pricing to be able to do some discounting
or to adapt over time.
Cuz it's a lot easier
to offer a discount and
lower your prices at specific times
than it is to say, hey, guys,
we're gonna charge more now,
things go bad at that point very quickly.
And then, of course, there's costs,
will your price cover your cost?
Shocking thing to consider, but
yes, you definitely need to
think about that as well.
So, what your call to action is,
you're gonna have a crack at a certain
pricing structure, and again,
you could run multiple different pricing
structures on different landing pages,
either all at the same time or run one
campaign and then run another, etc.